[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: I
don't know about you,
but I live my life to music.
When I wake up, I want to
hear one type of music.
As the day starts ramping up
in activity, I want another.
And in those times of
great changes in life,
I need an epic piece
to signal a new era.
Why is this so important?
Well, let's talk to Barry
Goldstein, the author
of "Secret Language
of the Heart,"
which is music, the secret
language of the heart.
>>BARRY GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And you know,
I find it such a-- that's
how my day begins.
I make a cup of
tea, and then start
searching for the perfect
music for that day.
And so I can go through
and think, oh, maybe
a little Vivaldi, but no.
Mm-mm.
That's not working for me.
Go to something soft and
a little more emotional.
That's not it either.
And I'll go through
a lot of choices
until I find the thing that's
right for-- a right match
emotionally and
mentally for that moment
and what I need to do.
>>GOLDSTEIN: That's amazing.
Perfect.
>>REGINA: Is that what you do?
>>GOLDSTEIN: It is.
Yeah.
I think that's a starting
point with the secret language
of the heart is
really asking yourself
where you are in that moment,
where do you want to go,
and what piece of music is
going to take you there,
because music's a bridge.
>>REGINA: It is.
It's like your
magic carpet ride.
And I have such deep
appreciation for it.
And first of all,
so do other people.
I mean, I was just looking at
the endorsements on your book.
I thought, OK,
well, I think I've
interviewed all those-- Gregg
Braden, Don Miguel Ruiz--
many, many, many other
people that I would
have interviewed in this arena.
And then, of course,
Joe Dispenza.
What is it about
what you're doing
that has such wide support from
the community of people who
are considered, you know,
conscious media of one
kind or another?
>>GOLDSTEIN: Well, I think it
has to do with my intention
and what I put into the music.
And really, for me, it's
a complex system, music.
It's not as simple
as it always sounds.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GOLDSTEIN: So putting emotion
and intention and composition
and harmonics and creating a
recipe that is unique to each
one of those authors--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDSTEIN: --to support
their vision and what they
want to share with the world.
So ultimately, I think
what the attraction
has been that I have an
understanding of what it takes
to bring people into their
hearts, because I've gone
and taken that journey myself.
And also to encourage
people to live
their heart and their passion
and how music can be a vehicle
to take them there.
It's a serious thing.
It's a fun thing.
But we all want
to have something
that supports our vision.
>>REGINA: And it all comes down
to, basically, energy medicine.
>>GOLDSTEIN: It is.
>>REGINA: Right?
>>GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
Music is a carrier of that.
Music creates its own field.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
OK.
So now one of the people
you work very closely with
is Dr. Joe Dispenza, whom
I've interviewed a few times.
>>GOLDSTEIN: I do.
>>REGINA: We love Dr. Joe.
Everybody loves Dr. Joe.
And talk to us a little bit
about the more sciencey end
of what you do together.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Well, we
definitely are targeting
specific states of being.
So we know for a fact that
when the human body is
in a more coherent state, and
a lot of times that means more
smooth, orderly heart rhythms
that benefit our physical body,
then the body does
what it does best.
And that is heal or move to
that parasympathetic state.
So when we're working
together, this all kind of
goes into the recipe of bringing
people to those coherent heart
states.
And when we're doing that, we're
also working with brain states
as well.
So we're targeting specific
brain states-- alpha, theta--
based on what is
going on in the group.
And a lot of times,
we're doing it live,
and we're doing
it in the moment.
So we're also
basing it on what's
going on in the audience.
We're feeling the
audience's energy.
And Dr. Joe was conducting
it and orchestrating it,
and we had this back
and forth, where
the audience becomes an integral
part of the composition.
>>REGINA: Well, you've
even gone as far
as working with
technology interfaces that
are reading the field or reading
your EEG, EKG, and so forth.
Let's talk a little bit about
that and what you and Dr. Joe
found.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Well, we found
that in these meditations,
people are moving to those
coherent brain wave states
in very short periods of time.
>>REGINA: And you're witnessing
it via the technology involved.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Right.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: Neurofeedback.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Neurofeedback,
through heart methods also.
Hooking people up through
the heart as well.
And we're seeing that people
are moving to those alpha brain
wave states or theta states
in sometimes 10 seconds.
They're showing that people
are moving into these states.
And it's a beautiful thing
to see scientifically.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDSTEIN: But you can see
it and feel it in the room
as well.
You can see when
that audience or when
the people participating--
it's not an audience.
It's participants-- are moving
into a coherent state together.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And one of the things I
noticed years ago in delving
into the whole neurofeedback
world and HeartMath
was that the heart was
noticed to slightly precede
the brain in response time.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
And that goes back and
forth between people.
We know that they
interact together--
>>REGINA: --Yes.
And people debate this.
>>GOLDSTEIN: That could
be an arm wrestling match.
>>REGINA: I remember
watching it.
I remember watching it with
both machines hooked up
simultaneously, even.
And I only bring it
up, because the wisdom
of the heart, our
knowledge from the heart,
it's not as though it's
some soft instrument that
lags behind.
It often is recognizing
truth and making a correction
before the brain
can even pick it up.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Right.
And they're working together.
>>REGINA: [INAUDIBLE].
Yeah.
>>GOLDSTEIN: And that's where
we're becoming so much more
cognizant of heart
intelligence and how
to tap into that intelligence,
because they all follow.
When your heart is in
that relaxed state,
and you're in those smooth,
coherent, orderly rhythms,
are you going to be
in beta or high beta?
>>REGINA: Right.
No.
>>GOLDSTEIN: The brain's
going to follow that,
and you're going to move into
that state, where your body can
move into rejuvenating itself.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And if you do want
to go to high beta,
well, there's plenty
of music for that.
>>GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
And it's all about
targeting that.
It's not about a
one size fits all.
It's about where you're at
and where you want to go.
And there's science behind
preferred music now as well.
That preferred music that
you're choosing in the morning,
we're seeing more
and more that that's
proving to have very
beneficial effects not
only in day-to-day people's
lives in transformative ways,
but even in
Alzheimer's patients.
>>REGINA: Mm-hm.
Yes.
Go ahead.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Well, we're finding
that music has such a strong
connection to memories that
your favorite song 40 years ago
could now be your lifeline to
coming back into that memory
in a state of Alzheimer's.
So if I asked you as
an Alzheimer's person
who's going through that, do
you remember me and you and Mom
sitting together at Christmas?
And they might
not remember that.
But if you play
that Christmas song,
they might be able to
connect with that memory,
because the music opens up
another pathway to access that.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
In fact, we're doing
that as a family
with my stepmother, who
is fairly far into decline
in dementia now, and starting
to play music from her era,
from the '40s, from the '50s.
And she'll go from a little
bit of-- when we do this,
I notice she'll go from this
bit of a foggy place, and boom.
She'll be wiggling
her little rear end
and dancing to the music.
It's so cute.
>>GOLDSTEIN: That's a miracle.
>>REGINA: That is.
>>GOLDSTEIN: It's a miracle
when we think about it,
and it's awesome that
we have these moments.
But in the life of the
families and the life
of the patient, those small
moments where they can move out
of fear and anxiety and just
reconnect with that person
again, it's amazing.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDSTEIN: And
Oliver Sacks, who
studies music and the
quickening, as he called it,
and watching patients
come to life,
he called it an awakening.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's what it looks like.
>>GOLDSTEIN: And
that's no small feat.
I present in
medical conferences,
and we show videos of
Alzheimer's patients, who
are literally in head-down
positions and non-responsive,
and the role that music
plays within that.
And I always ask, if I
would have shown you this
before and after picture without
telling you it was music,
would you have guessed that
music was the prescription that
got that person back to that
state, where they were now
here with us?
And most of them say no.
>>REGINA: No.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Most
of them say no.
>>REGINA: And yet it is such
a primitive, deep signaling
within our being-- music.
We'll talk a little later
about drumming, even,
but music where you add
melody to it, specifically.
And that's why as I said
when I was introducing you,
I find that if there's a
significant change in life
going on, I have to find--
I'm kind of restless
until I find the album that
feels right in that changing
moment.
And then it signifies
that forever, really.
Forever, that time is
always brought back.
But it's as though
we're reaching in
and need a different set of
frequencies when we change
anything within our own beings.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Yeah, and
you're creating new memories.
So while music has the ability
to connect us to old memories,
it also has the ability to shift
us out of old belief systems
and create completely
different new memories that
can lead us to--
>>REGINA: Very good point.
>>GOLDSTEIN: --elevated
emotions as well.
So not only does it work with
deprogramming or reprogramming
our past sometimes, but it
also programs our future.
>>REGINA: That's an
interesting point.
Is it used in any way that you
know of kind of therapeutically
like that to break old patterns
and establish new learning
patterns, for example?
Is music used in
learning environments?
>>GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Tell us about that.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
Within ADHD children
who are in classes
who have a hard time
focusing, they're
seeing that music
actually helps them
bring more attention
with certain subjects
like arithmetic.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GOLDSTEIN: With
autistic children,
amazing things with
music, which really boosts
the emotional
intelligence, because they
have a lot of challenges with
connecting certain emotions
with that feeling.
So we can talk
about that, and we
can describe feelings and
get absolutely nowhere
with traditional language.
But music as a language,
when I put on a song
like "Happy" by Pharrell
and say, this is happy,
or I play a symphony
by Beethoven
that's in a minor
key, and this is sad.
Now moving forward,
they have a connection,
an experiential
connection with that,
where their emotional
intelligence is deepened.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Let's talk about ADHD
and math, for example.
What would some-- because I know
that our viewers are thinking,
I wonder what that
would sound like.
What kind of music, for
example-- couple examples
of what would be good for
learning in that environment,
learning math.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
And again, this is where
preferred music comes in,
because the music that's
going to help them focus
is music that they like.
So it's not like well when
you recommend vegetables,
because you know they're
good for kids, right?
When you recommend
your music, it's
probably not going to work.
>>REGINA: Right.
It's not one size fits all.
>>GOLDSTEIN: So
creating a foundation
within that, because that's
really-- there's distractions.
So music that are going to
create more foundations,
so popular music, which has a
verse, a chorus, a bridge, they
know where that song is going--
>>REGINA: Percussion.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Percussion, right.
Rhythm to kind of
hold it down-- usually
work better in those conditions.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
And well, I think you
answered a little bit
ago talking about working in the
environment with autistic kids.
And one thing with you, you were
a kid when this all started,
and I love the
story in your book
about your tiny,
tiny little mother.
You had this just wonderful
little angel of a mother,
who was 4'7".
>>GOLDSTEIN: That's when
she had her hair done.
>>REGINA: Without hair?
>>GOLDSTEIN: She's 4'5"
without her hair done.
>>REGINA: Oh, my god.
Just this tiny little woman,
but what a passion for music.
So let's start hearing
about your own life story
now, an introduction
and your mom to music.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
One thing I just wanted to
go back for one thing also
with ADHD, there's
also-- shows that there's
a lack of dopamine within ADHD.
So there are studies
with music that
show that it helps to increase
dopamine levels, which is
based on our pleasure centers.
So it's important,
again, to have
them utilize their music
that brings pleasure.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That makes total sense.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
So I wanted to show the music
also has a pharmacy that's
created from it.
It's not just all pleasure.
It's our physical bodies are
producing specific-- a pharmacy
that benefits us.
>>REGINA: We're going to listen
to some cuts of your music
in a little bit, and maybe
you can even, at the time,
give us an idea of where
dopamine is coming in
versus, say,
serotonin coming in.
OK?
>>GOLDSTEIN: OK.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So let's get
to your personal life
story for a little while.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
Sorry for interrupting.
>>REGINA: No.
Go ahead and tell us about
your mom and how you started.
>>GOLDSTEIN: So my mom
at a very young age,
put me behind a piano.
And this is in my book as well.
It was very touching
to me still,
because it was such
a strong memory that
was embedded in me of literally
my mom's finger on top of mine
playing the song, "Yellow
Bird" by Harry Belafonte,
and she was singing,
"Yellow bird."
And I just remember
being in awe of how
the notes she was singing
were connected to the music
and how the notes hung
in the air of the room
and filled the space.
And I think it was my first
really transformational moment
with music, where I just
knew on a heart level
that music was always
going to be in my life.
And so throughout my life,
I was nurtured very much
within my household, and through
the ranks, learned guitar.
And for me, it was
always a way to tap
into a state of creation.
That's always been
my primary thing.
It's like I remember sitting
on the edge of my bed
and learning three chords
and writing a song to that
and saying, oh, my god, this did
not exist a half an hour ago.
Being able to create with
music and always a vehicle
to share my passion,
to share my purpose.
And I think that's what
really motivates me with music
is utilizing it as a
tool to help people
reach their passion and their
purpose, to kind of move
to that vulnerable, naked
state, where we can reconnect
with our heart and find that.
And so many times, when we're in
illness and health challenges,
we lose that conversation
with our hearts,
because we're in
a state of fear.
And we need to reconnect,
and music restarts
that beautiful conversation.
>>REGINA: And as you're talking,
what I'm feeling in this
and what strikes me is that
it was also this family
bonding, this love-- music
and love and your mother's
generous spirit.
None of that can
be separated out
when you started with
your musical roots.
And--
>>GOLDSTEIN: That's true.
I never thought of it that way.
>>REGINA: And it
just shows how music
can be used within the
family dynamic also,
how healing it is
within a family dynamic
if even one person
takes up an instrument.
Let's talk about
that a little bit,
about, say, one child
in a family of five
takes up the piano.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Right
>>REGINA: And the
potential for what that
brings to that family.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Well, absolutely.
Yeah.
And my sister was
a piano player,
and she was more
technically based,
and she went to high school in
music in art and took lessons,
and I was kind of the other
way, where I wasn't really
taught a lot of the
technical aspects of music.
And I was more
improvisational, so
a perfect aspect of how music
affects both the right and left
side of the brain.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GOLDSTEIN: And you
know, it obviously creates
bonding in the family as well.
We had our own concerts.
It was like the time
of Donny and Marie,
so we were like the Donny and
Marie of the Bronx, you know.
And you know, it brought the
family closer together as well.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And that was probably
my favorite part
of raising my son,
because he was naturally
good at music, not a
great student, dyslexic.
Really hard to read music.
Just kind of slogged through it.
But he could create.
He could compose.
And either way, I just--
some of the happiest days
were just being in the
background of his life,
while he was playing
the piano or the guitar
and falling asleep.
Often, he'd be practicing
later at night,
and falling asleep to that.
It just added so much
love to the household.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Right.
>>REGINA: Which I-- when I was
a kid and playing the piano,
it wasn't like that.
It's like, would you please
stop playing the same song
over and over?
It was like, oh, OK.
So they put the piano
in my bedroom, locked me
in there, just-- I'd stay in
all weekend to learn a new song.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Well,
initially, I was a drummer,
and I lived in an
apartment complex.
>>REGINA: Oh, no.
That's especially irritating.
>>GOLDSTEIN: So that
kind of went out
the window within that.
But 40 years ago,
if you would've
told me I would've
been putting people
to sleep every night with
music as a rock musician,
I would have considered
that insulting.
But now being part
of people's solutions
to be able to sleep at
night is such a big thing.
>>REGINA: It's not an insult.
>>GOLDSTEIN: It's a compliment.
It's not that I'm recognized
in the Metamucil aisle.
Oh, that's Barry Goldstein.
He puts me to sleep every night.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So your life, after-- you played
music throughout your life,
and you decided to go into
the recording industry.
And you were back east, right?
>>GOLDSTEIN: I was
back east, yeah.
>>REGINA: No,
that's, as I recall,
you said it took something like
100, 150 hours to put together
a four-minute piece.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Right.
>>REGINA: And there is a lot
of stress that goes with this.
Let's talk about your life
and how that transition
and just grinding out
the technical aspects,
how it affected you.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
I think a lot of
times when we're
moving to what we want
to be when we're a kid,
it doesn't always pan out the
way that you thought it did.
So I always wanted to be
a professional musician,
and wow, imagine just being
able to do that as a livelihood.
And then when I
got to that point
where I could, and I was
doing that, what I noticed
was that I was losing my heart.
I was losing contact with
that 14-year-old kid sitting
on the edge of his bed, who was
like enthralled to be writing
a song.
And so I really, in that process
of creating the 100-hour songs,
I was losing my love in the mix
of deadlines and commitments
like everybody else was.
And I started asking myself,
how do I get back to that place,
where I can connect,
again, music with my heart?
And it was an experiment,
really, for me.
And I started doing
some online research,
and I found out that the
human heart at a relaxed state
beats between 60 and
70 beats per minute
depending on the person.
I was like, wow,
what would happen
if I took the
pressure off myself,
and I just started taking
these hour-long journeys
with my metronome set
at 60 beats per minute?
And as my--
>>REGINA: Just playing to it.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Yeah,
just playing to it,
and allowing myself
to resynchronize
in the process of composing.
>>REGINA: And you became
your own physician.
>>GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
I really did, because I
didn't think anyone would
be listening to this music.
But I realized in that state,
I was moving to the zone.
I was resynchronizing
with my heart.
And--
REGINA: How does that go?
Do 60 per second with just
that beats, so people feel it.
GOLDSTEIN: It would
probably be-- boom.
[COUNTING BEATS]
Somewhere in there.
REGINA: So it's almost
a hypnotic state.
GOLDSTEIN: It is.
You move into it very easily,
because that metronome that's
in the music-- and this is
the powerful part to me.
You have a metronome
in your heart.
Your heart is a metronome.
And it has the ability to
adapt to a musical piece.
So when we're listening
to that music,
it's just like effortlessly
coming into that space
of moving back into the heart.
And that's really
what it did for me.
It moved me back into my
heart, and I started composing.
I created six CDs worth of
material with that thinking
no one would ever hear.
These were for me.
And people ended up using
them to birth their children
into the world, for sleeping
challenges, for dementia.
My friend's mom had dementia.
Can I try one of your pieces?
And she ended up
using it every night.
She started calling
it her music.
And at the end of the
circle of life and hospice,
where people are needing
to move out of that
contracted state and move
into a more expensive state
to transition.
REGINA: Make the transition.
Yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: Exactly.
So what started as an
experiment for me ended up
being an amazing
process of assisting
myself and others to
use them beneficially
and in medical settings as well.
And that really sparked my
intention of writing the book
and finding out more about
why that was happening.
And research over an extended
period of time as well.
My fiancee was a
big part of that,
and she was using my music
in her clinics for insomnia.
And when I told
her my intention is
I want to get this
out there medically,
and it became all
about, OK, well,
we have to speak that language.
And the language that
creates that opening
is the language of
science and research.
REGINA: Right.
And she's big on that.
We're talking about
Dr. Donese Worden.
GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
REGINA: Yes.
And so the two of you
have been collaborating,
because her thing is energy
medicine in large part.
And so between the
two of you, you
had the ability to begin almost
running your own research.
GOLDSTEIN: Exactly.
And my music this year
is being researched
by several universities,
where in conjunction with Dr.
Daniel Amen, to
conduct more research.
We've been talking
about our health.
So I think we're at a good
time in our consciousness,
where people are starting to
understand that music moves
beyond art and entertainment.
REGINA: Yes..
GOLDSTEIN: And it's
a support mechanism
for a lot of health
challenges and chronic issues,
as well as being low
cost and noninvasive.
REGINA: And pleasurable.
GOLDSTEIN: And pleasurable.
Yeah.
REGINA: Bringing about all
the cascade of the good brain
chemicals.
GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
REGINA: Let's talk about the
Sacred Heartbeat Process.
GOLDSTEIN: OK.
Great.
Well, I created this process
when I lived in New York,
and so my recording
studio was 15 blocks away.
And I would start my day
as you do with music,
and I would be all zenned out.
Oh, it's going to be an amazing.
And in 15 blocks, I would move
through a multitude of sounds
and things going on, everything
from people begging for money
to smells--
REGINA: Taxis honking.
GOLDSTEIN: Taxis honking,
ambulances, and by the time
I got to my recording
studio, and I
wanted to be in that
state of creation,
I realized that I was
in a contracted state.
And I wasn't in that
expansive state,
where I could connect
and bring music through.
So I wanted to create
a process that I
could do in very short periods
of time that would put me back
in contact with my heart.
That's where I create from.
So what better way than
to touch our hearts?
And I just really feel
strongly about this
that we've lost connection.
Many of us say that we want
to lead a more heart-centered
life, but when you
ask someone, OK, well,
when was the last
time you actually
listened to your heart, we
have a whole inner symphony.
I call this our inner music.
So the Sacred
Heartbeat Process is
geared towards putting
your hands on your heart,
and you start by
taking a big breath in.
You bring that breath in all
the way through your feet,
moving through your lower body,
all the way up to the heart.
And then you release it.
So if it'd be kind of like this.
And out.
And then the second breath,
you move that breath
in through the top of your head.
You move it through
your upper body,
through your upper centers.
You breathe into the heart.
And you release it.
And then you take a breath
in through the heart,
and a breath out
through the heart.
And what happens is you
start to really reconnect
with your own unique vibration.
REGINA: Yes.
GOLDSTEIN: You have that.
Nobody else does.
Nobody's heart sounds the same.
Nobody else's breath.
And you start to re-listen.
Wow, what is my passion?
What is my purpose?
What am I here to share?
Do it in your day
in five minutes when
you feel you need it.
REGINA: Very centering.
GOLDSTEIN: Mm-hm.
Very centering.
REGINA: Well, how
about if we listen
to one of your pieces of music?
Since you're here,
it's the morning,
you've done your Sacred
Heartbeat Process, right?
GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
REGINA: And now we're going to
listen to a piece of music that
might accompany that, and
then once it comes up,
we'll be quiet for a little bit.
And then you can explain to us
why that particular piece, what
it's doing to us.
And this is called, "Heart
Codes" in the gratitude.
It's for gratitude, which is
a good way to start the day.
GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
REGINA: So let's take a listen.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
REGINA: OK.
Before we totally drift off into
meditation, which I thought,
I think I just want
to do this, you
can hear the reverence in it.
But talk about what you're
doing, what you're creating
there to start the day.
GOLDSTEIN: OK.
Well, for this piece, I'd love
to talk to you a little bit
about the compositional
process as well,
because this is where
that kind of secret recipe
kind of comes in to creation.
And it's not just
about the frequency.
It's not just about
the intention.
It's not just about the emotion
or just about the harmonics.
It's about all of them together.
So my intention when
I created a Heart Code
was about bringing people
to a sacred place, where
they can discover and
listen to their own hearts.
So before I moved
into that process,
I always had to be emotionally
aligned with that intention,
because you can have an
intention, but if I walk in
and I'm in an angry
state, that's going
to go into the music as well.
So I would have to move
to that reverent state
that you're talking
about beforehand.
And in the Heart
Codes, that is created.
I would not be
creating in that space
if I was in a mood that was
out of context with that.
So that is what you're
feeling within that reverence.
And I think that's where
music is going now.
We're calling it designer music,
being able to design and put
specific emotions
and music, because we
know it carries a field.
And so this, again, is
composed at 60 beats per minute
to move to that state,
but really, the intention
is also to move into those
elevated emotions of kindness,
compassion, gratitude, and
not just for our emotions.
But we know, we've studied
that these emotions bring us
into a state that's coherent
and also affect our heart
rate variability, which is
our measurement of our heart
health.
REGINA: Right.
GOLDSTEIN: And also works with
bringing our immune functions
up and bettering it,
our cognitive abilities,
and also dealing
with environmental
stresses and
stresses that go on.
So that was really geared
towards the emotional body
affecting the physical body,
clearing the mental body,
and then having a deepening
connection in the spiritual.
REGINA: Yes.
Very beautiful.
GOLDSTEIN: Thank you.
REGINA: And you said the
word, "field" a moment ago,
which brings me into one
of my next questions,
which is, it's creating a
field beyond the audible range.
And so there was a point
you made in your book,
where Donese, who you
classify as a poster
girl for a type A personality,
she's lit up, passionate,
ready to go, researching
day and night,
practicing medicine
in the daytime,
and she came in and asked
you to-- what'd she say?
She was-- you need to turn
that down or something,
because it was interfering
with her state, her beta state.
It was relaxing her too much.
You had headphones on.
GOLDSTEIN: Well, I
started out with it on.
REGINA: Yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: And it
was so funny to me,
because my mom-- I used to
get that knock on the door
when I was a kid, but I was
playing electric guitar.
REGINA: Yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: So I
thought those days were
gone of getting the
knock, and here I
am getting a knock for
playing relaxational music.
REGINA: I need my edge.
GOLDSTEIN: So I put
on the headphones,
and Donese-- I heard
the knock again.
I'm like, what?
What's going on?
And she's like,
it's not working.
I still feel it.
And that field that
she felt initially
that was moving her into
that slower brain wave state
was still there.
She was feeling it coming
from the space of the room.
REGINA: Yeah.
It was still there in the
room, even though by this time,
you did have headphones on.
GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
That's correct.
REGINA: So she
wasn't hearing it.
She was--
GOLDSTEIN: She was feeling it.
REGINA: It infiltrated
into the space.
And this is really important.
Again, these are just
resonant energy systems,
energy carrying systems.
GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
It's energy medicine.
It's just like you have a
TENS machine or a TENS unit
that you're using.
Music has the capacity
as well to be that field,
to carry that.
REGINA: OK.
So now let's talk about Donese.
Let's say she wants to
stay in her beta state,
because she has a lot to do.
What are some good
examples to you--
this is preferential,
we know this-- to you
of really kind of good
beta-driving music when
we have to stay up?
We gotta keep the mind clicking.
GOLDSTEIN: Right.
Well, Donese's favorite-- I
call it a musical pinnacle
or a happy song.
Her favorite song is
"Kung Fu Fighting."
REGINA: Yeah.
That's cute.
GOLDSTEIN: And when
she listens to that,
she's going to move
into that state.
Like you immediately go there.
REGINA: Oh, yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: Right?
For me, it's the Jackson
5, "The Love You Save."
REGINA: Oh, yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: And as
soon as I hear that.
And what's amazing to me is
that these emotional states,
when we're moving
to them, people
don't realize how
much of an impact
they play on chronic things like
anxiety, working with anxiety,
or working with insomnia.
I had someone come up to me
at a conference and ask me,
she said, I experience
anxiety all the time.
I'm constantly having
anxiety attacks.
What music would
you suggest for me?
And I think she thought
I was going to suggest
like meditational music.
But in this specific
case, I asked
her, what's your happy song?
What song, when
you listen to it,
you have a hard time being
in a state of anxiety?
And even before
she said it, I can
see her moving out of
anxiety and asking me.
And she said, "Greensleeves."
REGINA: Oh, god.
I used to play that on
the piano hours on end.
GOLDSTEIN: Right.
And I asked her, I said, can
you close your eyes right now?
Close your eyes right now,
and imagine that you're
hearing "Greensleeves."
And that's what's amazing.
She was moving out of the state
and having those benefits.
And then we've researched this.
We show that people
having that state, where
they're not hearing the
music, have the same benefit.
And they're already
going to that state.
REGINA: That's
interesting, because just
since you said
"Kung Fu Fighting,"
I can't get it out of--
GOLDSTEIN: You can't
get it out of your head.
REGINA: So I'm going
to be saying, darn it.
Why'd you say that
three days from now?
You know, when those
things get stuck,
and you can't shake
it from your brain.
GOLDSTEIN: Right.
Exactly.
So people who are
watching, I invite
them to write down your
happy song now, and know
what that is.
Because as we said before,
that could be your lifeline
back in 40 years from
now, 50 years from now.
REGINA: That's a really
good point, your happy song.
OK.
Speaking of happy
songs, because I
want to go into some of the
more specific elements of music,
major, minor chords, and so on.
GOLDSTEIN: Sure.
REGINA: But in terms
of personal resonance,
you and Donese turned
out had this song
that you identified
with idealized love.
So tell us this story.
GOLDSTEIN: This
is so wild to me.
Talk about signs
from the universe.
REGINA: Yes.
GOLDSTEIN: I always
had told friends,
one of my favorite
songs is-- actually, no.
I said the song that-- it
sounds kind of morbid-- when
I die, I want to be
buried to this song,
because it always made me happy.
REGINA: Yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: And so the
song is, "Could It
Be I'm Falling in
Love," by The Spinners.
And it's a great song, but
it's not like a commonly known
by everybody.
REGINA: OK.
Yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: I mean it's not like,
"Joy to the World," or ---.
So when I asked
Donese when we first
started seeing each other
what your favorite song was,
and I heard from the other side
of the phone, "Could It Be I'm
Falling in Love,"
by The Spinners,
the first thing that popped in
my head was like, oh, my god.
REGINA: How is this possible?
GOLDSTEIN: I was
like, she is not
going to believe that that's
my favorite song as well.
And when I talked to her, it
was really a sign to both of us
that we were very much
in harmony and resonance
with each other.
REGINA: Yes.
Very much so, because then when
you started your relationship,
as I've heard you
say off camera,
it's like it was
just like a glove.
GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
REGINA: You were already in
harmony before you began.
And so this notion of music
as a bridge, in general,
was really kind of serving
that role for you two
to help you in the
recognition that this
is a beautiful compatible thing
that's just starting up here.
GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
Yeah.
And you know, harmony
is not just a word that
exists in the musical language.
I always think of
music as a way of life.
So we're not the same note.
That would be boring.
But we complement each other.
We're in harmony
with each other,
and that's something that I go
to in-depth about in the book
as well is how to identify
who's creating harmony
and who's creating
dissonance in your field.
REGINA: Right.
Talk about that.
GOLDSTEIN: Well, when we're
creating an intention,
it's a very sacred thing.
And sometimes it's
between us and, call it
what you may-- spirit, God,
the universe, the divine.
When you have that intention,
and you are treating it
in a sacred way, who
do you want to bring
into that field with you?
It's a sacred field.
And as you start to introduce
people into that field,
you can see who is creating
dissonance in your field.
Who's saying, well, no, I
think that's not a great idea.
Puncturing holes, energetic
holes in your passion,
your purpose, what's
in your heart.
REGINA: Right.
GOLDSTEIN: So it's important
to recognize and build
harmonious spiritual
relationships
and a spiritual team around
you that supports your vision
and to be an observer
and an astute awareness,
and listen to who
is creating harmony
and who is creating
dissonance in your field.
REGINA: And you mentioned
this earlier, too.
When you're choosing your music,
whatever time of the day it is,
for whatever purpose,
you're really
looking for music that
creates a sense of expansion,
where you can feel
your energy moving
outward, more embracing, more
extended, versus contraction.
Talk about this a little bit.
GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
Well, contraction
is-- I compare it
to being like on a winter's day
when you're kind of like this,
and you're cold, and
you're moving inward.
Your body's tight,
and you're stressed.
Expansion, I
compare-- and you'll
love this-- being
on top of a mountain
and being like this, wide
open, feeling like a speck
in the universe, but
like anything can happen.
So usually during our day, we'll
start off in an expansive way,
but things come into our field.
Challenges come in, whether
you're working with people
or you're a doctor working with
patients, whatever that is.
And we can move back into
that contracted state.
Music is an amazing way to move
back into the expansive state
again.
So asking yourself, what's
going to create expansion for me
right now?
Because for me, we don't
only have so much energy
that we can spend and find our
purpose and our passion with.
And if we're spending
it in states of drama
or spending it in those
contracted states,
then we have nothing left
for what we're here to do.
REGINA: That's very true.
GOLDSTEIN: And so that piece
of music is a reconnection,
where you can move into that
expansive state, ask yourself,
what am I here for today?
REGINA: So practically
speaking, it's
a really smart
idea for each of us
to have our own personalized
preferred playlist,
our happy song, our
inspirational song,
our songs that make
us feel expansive
after we've just contracted.
I mean is there any
music that really-- I
mean one could say just
by way of preference--
really contracts you?
GOLDSTEIN: Well, I mean I'm sure
people have listened to songs
and say, shut that off.
Turn that down.
REGINA: Yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: And that's
where we, again,
we become our own experts of
what feels good for us and what
doesn't.
And I think with the
technology and having access
to so many different
types of music that we now
have the ability to take
it to the next level
with our playlists and
target specific states.
REGINA: No, I think
that's a wonderful idea.
GOLDSTEIN: Gratitude.
A playlist for gratitude,
a playlist for inspiration,
a playlist for sensuality,
for all those as opposed
to a day at the beach
or reggae music.
They're great, but let's
bump it up a notch.
Let's bring the
awareness up, and know
that we all have the ability
to be the DJs of our own lives.
REGINA: Right.
No, I think that's
a wonderful idea.
I mean I have made
playlists that
are kind of emotion-oriented
like I made one called Queen
of Clean for cleaning house.
GOLDSTEIN: I need to have that.
REGINA: Every single upper.
Yeah, let's do this.
So I'd be bopping along
while I was cleaning.
And another one I called
Crybaby, the double entendre,
that was just emotionally
sensitive and even sad music.
But that's as far
as I've gotten.
But what you're talking
about for all of us,
I mean I think everyone
listening, why wouldn't we
create our inspiration
list, our peaceful list,
our motivating list?
GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
You know, it's
musical nourishment.
It's just like we know that
meditation is great for us.
We know that eating
a certain way
is going to benefit our health.
We know music creates
transformation for us,
but most of the
time, it's random.
We let those pieces
happen to us randomly.
But what happens when you
start to drive that vehicle?
And you become the person who is
creating a practice around it.
It has the same benefits as
nourishment, as meditation.
REGINA: So on that
note, let's listen
to another piece of your music.
This is more for midday, right?
This is called--
GOLDSTEIN: Yes.
REGINA: Is it
"Abundance Rising?"
Is that the name of it?
GOLDSTEIN: This is called
"Abundance Rising."
REGINA: "Abundance
Rising," and let's just
listen to it for a little bit.
This one, we won't be as tempted
to go under like last time.
GOLDSTEIN: No, we'll
feel ready to go.
REGINA: OK.
We're taking it in a
little bit, because it
has a ramp-up to
this, so we're going
to take it in about a minute.
OK?
GOLDSTEIN: Sounds good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
REGINA: So that starts
ramping up the mojo.
If you've kind of
lost your steam,
it has an inspirational quality
to it as well, I notice.
GOLDSTEIN: It does, and it has
a lot of nice, low grounding
frequencies in there.
But it also has
Gregorian chantings,
so it brings in the
heavenly aspects.
It has some hip hop beats
in the middle of it,
so it's a little
bit more modern.
And it's great to work with
breathing and releasing energy
that you're holding
in your physical body.
REGINA: And you know, how
systems such as Hemi-Sync
and others have been created
that use these basic beats
and binaural beats and so
forth to kind of subconsciously
affect the brain.
But as we've learned, I mean
it's not a one size fits all.
GOLDSTEIN: It's not
a one size fits all,
and I think that's
important as well.
When we're talking about
using music as medicine,
that we have to
think of it that way,
that each person is like a
patient that we're treating.
They're individual.
And what might
work for one person
might not work for the other.
And the music, I feel, at some
times, gets negated in the talk
about that, because it's very
much about the composition
as well.
It's not just the technology.
You know, it's the composition.
It's the emotion.
REGINA: And you're getting
the intention of the composer.
GOLDSTEIN: Exactly.
REGINA: And the emotion
of the composer.
GOLDSTEIN: All of that.
So when you combine
all of that together,
that's going to have a
powerful effect on the listener
if it's something that
they resonate with.
REGINA: We talked about this
off camera, because every now
and then, there's a
song that comes along,
and it may be the one hit
of that particular recording
artist.
But it comes along, and it
hits such a chord in everybody
that it becomes like an
overnight hit really.
And they can kind
of hang their hat
on that for the
rest of their lives.
Well, in the old days anyway
with royalties and performances
and so forth.
What is it that's happening
with that one song
that kind of everybody
seems to relate to?
GOLDSTEIN: Well, I have a theory
that I love-- my background was
in pop music originally, so I'm
a person who studied pop music.
I feel that music
has always been
a representative of what
is happening culturally
in our society.
So I'm sure for people who are
listening to more modern music,
if they listen to Bob Dylan,
"Blowing in the Wind,"
they might not think that's a
great song or like his voice.
But at that time, that was one
of the most powerful songs,
because it captured what
was going on in our country.
And I feel it's the same
thing when you look at artists
like Alanis Morissette.
She was turned down by lots
of different record labels,
and she hit a common chord that
hit about 23 million people
when that album came out.
And when the song, "You
Ought to Know," came out,
it was expressing an
angst to the relationship
that she was in.
"I want to remind
you of the mess
you made when you went away."
REGINA: Right.
GOLDSTEIN: And I
think it hit a chord
with women in that time period
that it's OK to express angst.
And the music was so
cathartic to do that.
Music was a vehicle,
so I feel like we
liberated all this energy that
was going on in our society.
REGINA: Trying to
manage it, trying
to manage the stress of a
tough relationship situation.
GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
We taught them to push that
down, and you don't say that.
So here's a song that gives
people permission to say it.
And 23 million people said it.
And she won five
Grammys for that.
So it's an inspiration
to artists, too,
who have a voice out there that
always follow your inspiration.
Follow your heart
to get it out there,
because your voice is
needed out there now.
REGINA: And it does.
Its drives our emotions
that may be hidden,
like you said, and/or
filled with longing.
And as you said earlier
too, sometimes it's
just the pure emotional
state the artist was
in when they created the song.
Their heart is coming
through to all of us,
and our heart is going
into resonance with them
in pain or pleasure.
GOLDSTEIN: Right.
Yeah, and with
that, it was like,
yeah, you could feel
that in those songs.
And then on the other end,
right around that same time,
you had Sarah McLachlan--
REGINA: Yes.
GOLDSTEIN: --who wrote a
beautiful song called "Angel."
And you could feel that.
REGINA: Right.
GOLDSTEIN: So it really
covers a spectrum
of hitting a common chord of
what people need at that time.
REGINA: Well, let's
talk about chords,
because when we get
into it technically,
do you find that people
tend to either be
aligned more disposition-wise
with major versus minor chords?
GOLDSTEIN: Well, I mean
they have a purpose.
So major chords are
going to connect us
more in a positive or
uplifting way at times.
And then minor chords make
us feel a little bit more sad
or a little bit more sallow.
So composers know these things
when we're creating songs.
REGINA: And it's the contrast
between the two in a song.
GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
Sometimes we'll go
between major and minor,
and sometimes we'll
stay in a neutral place
and just have a drone.
It's all for a purpose.
Or sometimes we'll have
a point in a song, where
it's completely quiet.
And there are studies that
show that during those times
where there is silence, that's
when our attention is caught
even more so from the listener.
REGINA: Yes.
I can see that.
GOLDSTEIN: --And
improves our attention.
REGINA: Right.
But I mean, thank
you for that answer.
I'm just wondering, have you
known-- I mean have you known--
can you tell whether
a person is generally
the kind that will prefer
major chords to minor chords,
for example?
Like "Rainy Day People."
GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
REGINA: Are comforted
by minor chords often.
GOLDSTEIN: Again, I think
that is where you're at
and where you want to go.
And also, certain things benefit
certain medical things as well,
like when I'm composing music
for sleeping challenges,
I try to stay in
between the two.
And I'm playing
what's called fifths.
So those outside
notes are not defining
whether it's major or minor.
It's the middle note
that defines that.
And I try to stay in between,
so I don't take people
to emotional states.
It's more like lighting
a candle in a room right
before you go to bed.
You don't want a
lot of distractions.
You don't want to
listen to a song
and say, oh, this
is my favorite part.
REGINA: Right.
Because now you're alert.
You're paying attention.
Your mind's active again.
GOLDSTEIN: Your mind's active.
REGINA: Right.
Which of your CDs--
what's the name of your CD
that has to do with this?
Because I know someone right
now who's just having real sleep
issues.
GOLDSTEIN: Yeah, so for
that, my series, "Ambiology,"
has a CD called "Genesis."
And "Genesis" has been used
clinically for insomnia and--
REGINA: In sleep clinics?
GOLDSTEIN: Well, Dr.
Worden, Donese has used it,
and we're also studying it.
It's also been used
in hospitals as well
for sleeping challenges.
REGINA: Does it work?
GOLDSTEIN: Oh, yeah.
Because it brings you to that
relaxed state very quickly.
It brings you down to
that 60 beats per minute.
And I always recommend
that when people
have sleeping challenges, when
you're using music for that,
it's not just about
putting it on before five
minutes before you go to sleep.
It's about winding
down and transitioning,
because so many of us
are going from type A--
we're on the internet.
Oh, my god.
It's 2 o'clock in the morning.
I need to go to sleep.
REGINA: Now.
GOLDSTEIN: Right.
Right.
To actually wind down,
start treating sleep
as a more sacred time, put
on that music about an hour
before bed time, and your
body starts to adapt to that.
So it took awhile for
you to move out of sync.
Give yourself at least 30
days to play that music
and to wind down
before sleep with it.
And you'll see that you're
staying asleep longer.
You're getting
better quality sleep.
REGINA: OK.
On that note, no pun intended,
let's take a listen to one more
piece of your music.
And this is for winding down
at the end of the day called
"Alpha Evening."
GOLDSTEIN: That's correct.
REGINA: OK.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
REGINA: You can really hear
it bringing it down, quieting
everything in this.
And I would think
that that would
be, for a number of reasons,
a really lovely thing
for a couple to do-- to go to
bed earlier than you would.
Don't just turn off the
computer and try to crash.
But go to bed earlier,
and listen to music
together so that you fall
in a resonance together
and dream time together.
GOLDSTEIN: That's a great idea.
I totally, totally
agree with you.
And you know, again,
it's about moving
into that parasympathetic
state, slowing your body down,
allowing it to
rest and rejuvenate
so that you could wake up in
that state, where you can share
your passion and your purpose.
REGINA: Right.
Well, let's talk--
we're going to-- we
have some time to still go
into a few other elements.
And one is toning and
what kind of part toning
plays in all of this.
GOLDSTEIN: So for
toning, I like to tone
through parts of my
body that feel tense
or feel like they need
to release energy.
And I work through
the energy centers,
sending different
tones to those centers.
So your tone might be
slightly different than mine,
and it's really about
placing your hands on each
of your energy centers, and
we start with the base, which
is the base of our spine.
Within that center, I usually
send the lowest possible sound
that I can of U. And
so in the root chakra,
I send something
that would sound
like this with a big breath in.
[INHALES] I put my hand
on there, and then I go,
[LONG, DEEP VOICE] U.
So what I'm doing when
I'm doing that is I'm
searching for that
sound that feels
like it's vibrating my hand.
REGINA: Right, and breaking
up an old energy pattern
that may be stuck there.
GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
And you can usually tell as
you go through your centers,
as you go up, each center
has a different sound
that you can feel
which ones, oh,
that one felt really open and
expansive as I tone through it.
That one I could hardly
get any sound through.
And as we work with
our energy centers,
there are areas that are geared
toward specific consciousness,
different aspects of
emotions, as you said,
that we hold there.
So as you see which
ones are blocked,
and you see what that
means-- for instance,
the throat is geared
towards expression,
knowing that your
words are heard,
acknowledged, and appreciated.
So if you have a hard time
toning through that throat
chakra, it could be
maybe something happened
at work, where you
didn't feel like you were
heard in that
moment, or you didn't
get to fully express yourself.
Within the third eye, it
could be a lot of mind chatter
that you've been locked into
a story that's been going on.
So when you start to realize
that each one of them
has something that is specific
emotionally that ties to it,
then we have the ability
to tone through it.
Work with the ones
that are blocked more,
and see if it does have
a resonance to something
that's going on
emotionally in your life,
because as soon as you do
that, you liberate energy.
You let energy go, and--
REGINA: Back to that
expansive state.
Yeah.
GOLDSTEIN: Exactly.
You make room for more
energy to come in.
Now you've found yourself having
a lot of support in your life,
because you've cleared your base
chakra or a lot of nurturing,
or you feel like you're able
to walk more in your path.
REGINA: Right.
Now when-- let's
talk about using
songs for a very specific
reason, because were talk
quite a bit in your book
about using songs to help
you set and keep an intention.
So let's get into that.
GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
So I think this is a
part that's usually
within the sound
healing community,
we don't talk about like
using popular new music a lot.
And I think that
popular music absolutely
can be healing as
well, especially
with creating intention.
This is where songs with
lyrics do assist you.
So if you have a
business meeting,
and you need to be
geared up, maybe
"I'm So Excited" by
the Pointer Sisters.
REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
That's a good one.
GOLDSTEIN: Or you're an
actress living in Iowa,
and you know that all your
acting jobs are going to happen
if you move to New York.
So you listen to Frank
Sinatra every day,
and you put yourself
in that space
of listening to "New York,
New York," smelling what
New York-- the sounds and
the smell of the pizza
coming out from the pizza
shops, and all of the atmosphere
there.
And you constantly use this
song to create a field that's
going to bring that
resonance and that attraction
into your life.
And as you move into those
elevated states of emotion,
that's when intention happens.
When you're combining
the intention
and the elevated emotion of--
REGINA: Absolutely.
People-- that's the one that's
been difficult in the New Age
community in particular to
kind of break the notion
that all you have to
do is say, I want this,
and repeatedly it's
going to happen.
It's so inextricably intertwined
with the positive emotions
supporting that experience.
GOLDSTEIN: Exactly.
And this is where it moves
into being-- it could
be a quick fix in any area.
It could be a quick
fix in New Age,
just as it could be
in the medical arena.
REGINA: Right, right.
GOLDSTEIN: You know,
so for me, it always
comes back to, again,
what am I here to do?
How am I here to serve,
and what could put me back
on track to do that?
REGINA: Right.
GOLDSTEIN: What musical piece
can connect me with my heart,
which is going to speak to that?
REGINA: Well, and for
negative emotions,
if you want to
pull yourself out,
you like Bruce
Springsteen, right?
GOLDSTEIN: I love--
REGINA: Did I read
that correctly?
GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
I mean I love singing to
Bruce and releasing emotion
through songs like
"Jungleland" or "Born to Run."
And it brings me back.
It brings me back to my roots
of where this all started,
learning the power of music.
I think where I learned it
was in my park growing up
as each of my friends
would play a mix tape.
Back then, it was
cassette tapes.
And we'd have-- those
are our playlists.
We have a half an hour to share
what we love listening to.
And that's when I
realized like, oh, my god,
music shifted a friend
who was in depression.
Music shifted a friend who had
a gang member in his family, who
were coming home beaten up.
Music shifted my friends
who had alcoholic parents.
And I watched them shift
for those half an hour
into their own space,
where they were elevated.
REGINA: That's beautiful.
Yeah.
And the thing is like
you said, you don't even
have to have whatever
your musical device is,
your iPod or your iPhone,
whatever, with you anymore.
All you have to do is
remember that song.
GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
REGINA: As soon as you
remember it and start
going into it in your
head, it's starting
to have the same effect through
memory as it does to actually
listen to it on a device.
GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
As I was just describing
that, I was in the park.
I was hanging out on
the bench listening.
I could see Joe's boombox
there and all of my friends.
REGINA: So for you,
another one when
you begin your day, one
of your favorite songs
is "Morning Has Broken"
by Cat Stevens, which
is just such a beautiful song.
GOLDSTEIN: It is.
And you know what?
It connects us to nature.
It connects us to
the miracles that
are all around us that when we
start our day, that no matter
what's going on,
we have the ability
to tap into the
small things that
have been created
in the planets,
in the flowers, the birds.
And when we see
those small things,
and we're able to
connect with those,
then we move into that space
of gratitude of why we're here.
REGINA: Yes, and it is such a
kind of melodic little thing,
such a beautiful piece.
So we each need to find our
own version of "Morning Has
Broken."
A good way to start the day,
as you say, with gratitude.
And fortunately, you've
done the hard work
in that you created all
these different CDs that
have these different
compilations on them
that we can just
plug into as well.
GOLDSTEIN: Absolutely.
And it was great.
When you find out somebody
else's happy song,
then it becomes your happy song.
REGINA: Yes.
GOLDSTEIN: So it's a
community thing too
that we can all share as well.
Like I like "Kung Fu
Fighting" a lot more since--
REGINA: Yeah.
You're right.
We all need to find out
our sweetie's happy song.
GOLDSTEIN: Exactly.
REGINA: We have just
a couple minutes left.
Any final comments on maybe some
of the work and experimentation
going on right now, more
in the science arena,
or just in what's coming
up with you and your music?
GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.
Well, both.
Where I think we can really
move forward in this field
is getting more specific
in our research.
And I think we
tend to lump things
into genres-- classical
music or rock music.
How many millions
of songs are there
in each of those categories?
So what my focus
is is let's begin
to focus on designer music.
This specific piece
has this frequency,
and let's see if it works.
Because we need more information
on what frequency works
to move beyond urban
legend that's out there,
and let's see what really
works in quantitative studies.
And then within my work,
I'm excited to announce
that I'm releasing a
series for pets and humans
to bond with together,
because I think animals--
REGINA: Oh, interesting.
Yes.
They're very sensitive to music.
GOLDSTEIN: Yes, and to us.
REGINA: Us.
Yes.
GOLDSTEIN: So creating
a program where
we connect with our animals.
And HeartMath has done
some initial studies
showing that when we're in that
space where we're connecting
with our animals, that
actually, our heart rate
variabilities move into a
space of coherence together.
REGINA: Yes.
GOLDSTEIN: So this is
going to be a series that
works with us listening,
taking time with our pets,
winding down.
They feel our energy.
We feel their
unconditional love.
And I composed it initially
for our dog, Woody,
who we saved from
the Humane Society,
and has been an instrumental
part as my teacher.
Pets teach us patience, right?
REGINA: Yes.
GOLDSTEIN: So that's where I'm
going and lots of new projects
with great speakers and
supporting their work.
As you told me off
camera, this is the year
of collaboration and synergy.
REGINA: That's right.
GOLDSTEIN: So I'm synergizing
with Gregg Braden, Anita
Moorjani.
We're doing some
great things together.
With Dr. Joe Dispenza, who I
just have so much gratitude
for our collaborations
and his work
that I've been part of sharing.
REGINA: That's wonderful.
Write down the
pieces to purr by.
GOLDSTEIN: That's right.
Purrfect music.
REGINA: Purrfect music.
Thank you so much.
GOLDSTEIN: You're welcome.
REGINA: I really--
I mean, like I said,
I can't do a day
without music, and I'm
so happy to have your
inspiration for people
who may have kind of let music
drop from their lives a bit
to pick it back up again,
start the healing process.
Thank you so much, Barry.
GOLDSTEIN: My pleasure.
Thank you for having me.
REGINA: As I said at
the top of the show,
I couldn't live without
music in my life
and love what Barry
has shared with us.
You can pick up a copy of "The
Secret Language of the Heart"
through major booksellers.
Until next time, thank you
for joining us here on Gaia.